A Dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirement 
For the award of degree of 
MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
Of 
Visvesvaraya Technological University 
Belgaum, Karnataka 

By 
ROHIT T NADAGERI 
1CR24MC085 

Department of Master of Computer Applications 
CMR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
132, IT Park Road, Kundalahalli, Bangalore – 560037 
2024-2026 

 
 
 
 
 
A dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirement  
for the award of degree of 
MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
Of 
Visvesvaraya Technological University 

By 
ROHIT T NADAGERI 
1CR24MC085 
Under the Guidance of 
Dr. KALAISELVI K 
Assistant Professor 
CMR Institute of Technology 

Department of Master of Computer Applications 
CMR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
132, IT Park Road, Kundalahalli, Bangalore – 560037 
2024-2026 

 
 
 
 
FinTrack
A dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirement  
for the award of degree of 
MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
Of 
Visvesvaraya Technological University 

By 
ROHIT T NADAGERI 
1CR24MC085 
Under the Guidance of 

 INTERNAL GUIDE                                                                                 EXTERNAL GUIDE 
  Dr. KALAISELVI K 
   Assistant Professor 
   CMR Institute of Technology 

Department of Master of Computer Applications 
CMR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
132, IT Park Road, Kundalahalli, Bangalore – 560037  
2024-2026 

 
 
 
 
 
CMR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Department of Master of Computer Applications 
Bengalore – 560037 

CERTIFICATE 
This is to certify that the project work entitled  
“FinTrack” 
Submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirement  
For the award of the degree of 
Master of Computer Applications of the 
Visveswaraya Technological University, Belgaum, Karnataka 
Bonafide work carried out by 
Rohit T Nadageri 
1CR24MC085 

               Signature of Guide                              Signature of HoD                                   Signature of the 

Principal 
                  Dr. Kalaiselvi K                                      Dr. Gomathi T                                         Dr. Sanjay Jain 
             Asst. Professor, MCA                                   HoD, MCA                                          Principal, CMRIT 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
DECLARATION 

I,  ROHIT  T  NADAGERI,  student  of  the  4th  MCA,  CMR  Institute  of 
Technology, Bangalore, bearing USN 1CR24MC085 hereby declare that 
the project entitled “FinTrack” has been carried out by me under the 
supervision  of  Prof.  KALAISELVI  K,  Department  of  Computer 
Applications and submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for 
the  award  of  the  Degree  of  Master  of  Computer  Applications  by  the 
Visvesvaraya Technological University during the academic year 2024-
25. 
This  report  has  not  been  submitted  to  any  other  Organization  or 
University for any award of degree or certificate. 

Place: Bangalore                                                                   Rohit T Nadageri 
Date:                                                                                                  
1CR24MC085 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

I  would  like  to  extend  my  heartfelt  gratitude  to  all  those  who  have 
contributed to the successful completion of this project. 

First  and  foremost,  I  express  my  sincere  appreciation  to  my  internal 
project  guide,  Prof.  Kalaiselvi  K,  Assistant  Professor  in  the  MCA 
Department  at  CMR  Institute  of  Technology,  for  her  continuous 
encouragement and insightful advice. 

I also wish to convey my gratitude to Dr. Gomathi, Head of Department 
and Dr. Sanjay Jain, Principal of CMRIT, Bangalore, for there unwavering 
support during my study. 

My deepest appreciation goes to my parents and family members for 
their unconditional support throughout this project. 

Lastly  I  would  like  to  thank  my  friends  for  their  constant  advice  and 
motivation throughout the course 

Rohit T Nadageri 
1CR24MC085 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 

FinTrac is a personal finance management application developed to assist users in organizing 

and monitoring their financial activities efficiently. The system provides essential features such 

as income and expense tracking, budget planning, savings goal management, and multi-account 

handling within a single platform. The application is designed with a strong focus on the Indian 

financial  environment,  supporting  Indian  Rupee  currency  formatting,  bank  details,  and  UPI-

related information to ensure ease of use for local users. 

The  application  enables  users  to  gain  a  clear  understanding  of  their  financial  status  by 

presenting  structured  dashboards,  categorized  transactions,  and  visual  budget  indicators.  It 

allows users to set financial goals, track progress over time, and receive alerts when spending 

approaches predefined limits. An offline-first approach is adopted so that users can access and 

manage  their  financial  data  without  relying  on  continuous  internet  connectivity,  thereby 

improving reliability and data security. 

The  main  objective  of  the  project  is  to  demonstrate  how  modern  mobile  application 

technologies  can  be  applied  to  solve  real-world  personal  finance  challenges.  FinTrac  also 

highlights the practical implementation of tools such as React Native and local data storage to 

build  a  responsive,  user-friendly,  and  secure  cross-platform  application.  Overall,  the  project 

serves as an effective example of applying academic knowledge to develop a practical solution 

that promotes better financial planning and responsible money management. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 

1. Introduction 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Subsection 

1.1 Project Description 

1.2 Company Description 

2. Literature Survey 

2.1 Existing and Proposed System 

2.2 Feasibility Study 

2.3 Tools and Technologies Used 

2.4 Hardware and Software 
Requirements 

3. SRS 

3.1 Users 

3.2 Functional Requirements 

3.3 Non-Functional Requirements 

4. System Design 

4.1 System Perspective 

4.2 Context Diagram 

5. Detailed Design 

5.1 Use Case Diagram 

5.2 Sequence Diagrams 

5.3 Collaboration Diagrams 

5.4 Activity Diagram 

5.5 Database Design 

6. Implementation 

6.1 Screenshots 

6.2 Code Snippets 

7. Software Testing 

Testing & Results 

8. Conclusion 

9. Future Enhancements 

Appendix A 

Appendix B 

Bibliography 

User Manual 

Page No. 

8 

11 

12 

14 

15 

16 

17 

19 

21 

22 

24 

26 

29 

32 

34 

36 

39 

48 

50 

54 

55 

56 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 

1.1  Project Description 

Managing personal finances has become an essential yet challenging task in today’s fast-paced 

lifestyle.  With  multiple  income  sources,  daily  expenses,  digital  payments,  and  long-term 

financial goals, individuals often struggle to maintain clarity and control over their money. Many 

existing finance applications are either too complex, require continuous internet access, or do 

not fully cater to the Indian financial context. To address these challenges, this project titled 

FinTrac has been developed as a comprehensive personal finance management application. 

The  primary  objective  of  FinTrac  is  to  provide  users  with  a  simple,  organized,  and  reliable 

platform to track and manage their financial activities efficiently. Instead of using multiple tools 

or  maintaining  manual  records,  users  can  rely  on  a  single  application  to  record  income  and 

expenses, monitor budgets, manage savings goals, and handle multiple accounts. The system is 

designed with a clear and structured interface that allows users to understand their financial 

position at a glance. 

FinTrac focuses on creating a user-friendly digital environment where financial planning feels 

manageable rather than overwhelming. Users can add daily transactions by categorizing them 

into predefined sections such as food, travel, utilities, and others. Budget limits can be set for 

each category, and visual indicators help users understand how much of the budget has been 

utilized. This encourages disciplined spending and helps users avoid unnecessary expenses. 

The application supports multiple financial accounts, including bank accounts, wallets, and cash 

records. Users can view balances, track account-wise transactions, and manage financial data 

in an organized manner. Savings goals are another important feature, allowing users to define 

targets, set deadlines, and monitor progress over time. These features together help users plan 

for both short-term needs and long-term financial objectives. 

FinTrac is designed using an offline-first approach, ensuring that users can access and update 

their financial data even without an active internet connection. All user data is stored locally, 

enhancing privacy and data security. This approach is particularly useful for users who prefer 

complete control over their financial information without relying on cloud storage. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From a technical perspective, the application is developed using React Native for the frontend 

to provide a smooth and responsive cross-platform experience. Local storage mechanisms are 

used  to  securely  store  financial  records,  ensuring  fast  access  and  reliable  performance. 

Authentication features such as login and registration ensure that only authorized users can 

access complete functionality. Once logged in, users are presented with a dashboard that acts 

as a central hub for navigating transactions, budgets, goals, and reports. 

Overall, FinTrac is not just a financial tracking tool but a structured approach to building better 

money  management  habits.  By  combining  simplicity,  accessibility,  and  practical  financial 

features, the application helps users gain better awareness of their spending patterns, improve 

financial  discipline,  and  make  informed  decisions.  The  project  demonstrates  the  practical 

application of academic knowledge to solve a real-world problem and serves as a  

useful  personal finance solution tailored to everyday needs. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Literature Survey 

2.1  Existing and Proposed System 

When it comes to personal finance management, many users already rely on existing mobile 

and  web-based  applications  such  as  Mint,  ET  Money,  Walnut,  MoneyView,  and  similar 

budgeting tools. These applications generally provide basic functionalities like expense tracking, 

budget creation, bank linking, and financial summaries. Some of them focus more on expense 

visualization,  while  others  emphasize  investment  tracking  or  bill  reminders.  Although  these 

systems  are  widely  used,  they  come  with  several  limitations  that  affect  usability  and 

accessibility. 

One of the major drawbacks of existing systems is their dependency on continuous internet 

connectivity. Many applications store user data on cloud servers, making offline access either 

limited or unavailable. This becomes inconvenient for users who want to record transactions 

instantly  or  review their  finances  without  an  active  internet  connection.  Additionally,  cloud-

based storage raises privacy concerns, as sensitive financial data is often shared with third-party 

services. 

Another  issue  is  complexity.  Existing  finance  applications  tend  to  include  a  wide  range  of 

advanced  features,  charts,  analytics,  and  detailed  reports  that  may  confuse  average  users. 

While such features may benefit experienced users, they often overwhelm students, beginners, 

or individuals who simply want to track income and expenses quickly. Some applications also 

require users to link bank accounts compulsorily, which not everyone is comfortable with. 

Cost is another significant limitation. Most existing platforms provide only limited functionality 

for free and require users to purchase premium subscriptions to access essential features such 

as  detailed  reports,  multiple  accounts,  or  budget  alerts.  This  makes  them  less  suitable  for 

students and budget-conscious users. Moreover, many applications are not fully optimized for 

Indian  financial  practices,  such  as  proper  Rupee  formatting,  Lakh-Crore  representation,  or 

simplified UPI-based tracking. 

To  overcome  these  limitations,  the  proposed  system  FinTrac  is  designed  as  a  simple,  user-

friendly  personal  finance  management  application.  Instead  of  overwhelming  users  with 

unnecessary complexity, FinTrac focuses on providing only the essential features required for 

effective money management. These include income and expense tracking,  

category-wise budgeting, savings goal management, and multi-account handling. 

 
 
FinTrac is developed with an offline-first approach, allowing users to access and update their 

financial  data  without  internet  dependency.  All  data  is  stored  locally  on  the  user’s  device, 

ensuring  better  privacy  and  complete  control  over  personal  financial  information.  The 

application  presents  information  through  a  clean  dashboard,  making  it  easy  for  users  to 

understand their financial status at a glance. 

Another important advantage of the proposed system is its accessibility. FinTrac does not force 

users into immediate paid subscriptions and is designed to be student- and beginner-friendly. 

The  interface  is  straightforward,  with  clear  navigation  to  transactions,  budgets,  goals,  and 

reports. Indian currency formatting and localized financial structures further enhance usability 

for domestic users. 

In  summary,  while  existing  systems  offer  useful  financial  tools,  they  are  often  expensive, 

complex, internet-dependent, and less privacy-focused. The proposed system, FinTrac, aims to 

provide a simple, secure, and accessible solution that encourages consistent financial tracking 
and responsible money management without unnecessary technical or financial barriers. 

2.2  Feasibility Study 

Before  developing  any  project,  it  is  important  to  analyze  whether  the  proposed  system  is 

practical and can be implemented successfully in real-world conditions. This is achieved through 

a feasibility study, which evaluates the project from different perspectives such as technical, 

operational, economic, and schedule feasibility. The feasibility study for FinTrac ensures that 

the system is realistic, cost-effective, and suitable for users. 

1. Technical Feasibility 

From a technical perspective, the FinTrac project is feasible because it uses reliable, modern, 

and  widely  adopted  technologies.  The  frontend  of  the  application  is  developed  using  React 

Native, which allows the system to run smoothly across multiple platforms. Local data storage 

mechanisms are used to store user financial information securely on the device. 

All the tools and frameworks used in the project are open-source, meaning there is no licensing 

cost involved. These technologies also have strong developer communities, making it easier to 

find documentation, tutorials, and solutions in case of technical issues. Since the application is 

designed to work efficiently on standard smartphones and web browsers, it does not require 

high-end hardware or specialized devices. This makes the technical implementation practical 

and achievable. 

2. Operational Feasibility 

 
Operationally, FinTrac is designed to be simple and user-friendly. The system follows a clear and 

intuitive workflow that matches real-life financial habits. Users can easily register, log in, and 

access  a  personalized  dashboard  that  displays  their  financial  overview.  Adding  transactions, 

setting budgets, and tracking savings goals require minimal steps and do not involve complex 

procedures. 

The application is suitable even for users with limited technical knowledge. Most actions, such 

as  recording  an  expense  or  checking  budget  usage,  can  be  completed  with  a  few  taps.  The 

offline-first nature of the system also improves usability, as users can manage their finances 

anytime  without  worrying  about  internet  availability.  Therefore,  the  system  is  operationally 

practical and easy to adopt.  

3. Economic Feasibility 

From an economic point of view, the FinTrac project is cost-effective to develop and maintain. 

Since all development tools, frameworks, and libraries used are free and open-source, there is 

no  significant  development  cost.  Local  storage  reduces  dependency  on  paid  cloud  services, 

further minimizing expenses. 

The project does not require any additional hardware or external devices, making it affordable 

for  student-level  development.  If  the  application  is  expanded  in  the  future,  optional  paid 

services such as cloud backup or advanced hosting can be introduced. However, for the current 

scope, the overall cost remains minimal, making the project economically feasible. 

4. Schedule Feasibility 

The project is also feasible in terms of time management. FinTrac is developed in a modular 

manner, where features such as transaction management, budgeting, account handling, and 

goal  tracking  can  be  implemented  independently.  This  approach  ensures  that  delays  in  one 

module do not affect the entire system. 

The technologies used are commonly taught and widely practiced, allowing faster learning and 

implementation. With proper planning and task division, the project can be completed within 

the allocated academic timeline. Hence, the system is schedule-feasible and manageable within 

a reasonable development period. 

Overall,  FinTrac  is  feasible  from  all  aspects.  Technically,  it  uses  stable  and  accessible 

technologies; operationally, it is easy to use and practical; economically, it is low-cost; and in  

terms of scheduling, it can be developed within a realistic timeframe. This makes the project 
suitable for academic implementation as well as future real-world enhancement. 

 
2.3  Tools and Technologies Used 

For developing FinTrac, different tools and technologies were used on both the frontend and 

backend sides. These technologies were selected because they are free, reliable, and well-

supported by the developer community. This helped in smooth development and ensured the 

application remains stable and easy to maintain. 

1. Frontend Technologies 

The frontend is the part of the application that users see and interact with directly. In FinTrac, 

the frontend was built using: 

React Native 

React Native is a framework used to build cross-platform mobile applications using JavaScript. 

It allows the same codebase to run on both Android and iOS devices. In FinTrac, React Native 

was used to develop screens such as the dashboard, transactions page, budget management, 

savings goals, and account overview. 

One of the main reasons for choosing React Native is its component-based structure, which 

helps  in  creating  reusable  UI  elements.  This  improves  code  organization  and  reduces 

development  time.  React  Native  also  provides  a  smooth  and  responsive  user  experience 

without reloading screens. 

Expo 

Expo is a tool built on top of React Native that simplifies development and testing. It was used 

in  FinTrac  to  speed  up  the  development  process  and  reduce  setup  complexity.  Expo  also 

provides built-in features like icons and development utilities, which helped in creating a clean 

and consistent interface. 

2. Backend Technologies 

The backend handles data processing and application logic behind the scenes. Since FinTrac 

follows  an  offline-first  approach,  heavy  server-side  processing  is  not  required.  However, 

backend logic is handled locally within the application. 

JavaScript (Business Logic Layer) 

JavaScript  is  used  to  implement  the  core  business  logic  of  the  application.  It  manages 

calculations such as budget usage, balance updates, goal progress tracking, and transaction  

handling.  Using  JavaScript  allows  better  integration  between  frontend  components  and 

 
internal logic. 

3. Database 

AsyncStorage 

AsyncStorage is used as the local database for FinTrac. It stores all user-related financial data 

such  as  accounts,  transactions,  budgets,  and  goals  directly  on  the  user’s  device.  This 

eliminates the need for cloud storage and ensures data availability even without an internet 

connection. 

Using  AsyncStorage  improves  privacy and performance,  as  sensitive  financial  data  remains 

under  the  user’s  control.  It  is  lightweight,  easy  to  integrate,  and  well-suited  for  mobile 

applications. 

4. Authentication and Security 

To protect user data, basic authentication features are implemented in FinTrac. Users must 

register  and 

log 

in  to  access  their  personal  dashboard  and  financial 

information. 

Authentication ensures that only authorized users can view or modify stored data. 

Sensitive data is handled securely, and access to application features is restricted based on 

user login status. Since data is stored locally, the risk of data leakage through external servers 

is minimized, enhancing overall security. 

5. Development Tools 

Apart from programming frameworks and libraries, several supporting tools were used during 

development: 

Visual Studio Code (VS Code) – Used as the primary code editor. It provides extensions that 

support React Native development. 

Git and GitHub – Used for version control and code backup. These tools help track changes 

and manage different versions of the project. 

 npm – Used to manage dependencies and install required libraries. 

Jest – Used for basic testing to verify application functionality. 

6. Other Libraries and Dependencies 

Some additional libraries were used to support specific features in the project: 

 
 
UUID – Used to generate unique IDs for transactions, accounts, budgets, and goals. 

Date-fns  –  Used  for  handling  dates  such  as  transaction  dates,  monthly  budgets,  and  goal 

deadlines. 

React Navigation – Used to navigate between different screens in the application smoothly. 

The tools and technologies used in FinTrac were chosen mainly for their simplicity, availability, 

and cost-effectiveness. React Native and Expo helped build a responsive and cross-platform 

frontend. AsyncStorage handled data storage securely and efficiently. Supporting tools such 

as  GitHub,  VS  Code,  and  npm  made  development  more  organized.  Together,  these  tools 
enabled the successful development of FinTrac within the scope of a student-level project. 

2.4  Hardware and Software Requirements 

Before developing or running any project, it is important to identify the required hardware 

and  software  resources.  Since  FinTrac  is  a  cross-platform  personal  finance  management 

application designed to run on mobile devices and web browsers, the system requirements 

are moderate and do not demand high-end equipment. The application can run smoothly on 

standard devices with basic configurations. The requirements are listed below. 

Hardware Requirements 

•  Processor: Minimum Intel i3 or equivalent 

•  RAM: 4 GB (8 GB recommended for smoother development and testing) 

•  Storage: At least 500 MB of free disk space for project files and local data storage 

•  Display: Standard screen resolution (1366 × 768 or higher) 

     Internet: Internet connection required during development, testing, and initial setup 

The project does not require any additional hardware such as external devices, sensors, or 

peripherals.  This  makes  the  system  easy  to  develop,  test,  and  use  on  commonly  available 

devices. 

Software Requirements 

•  Operating System: Windows 10 / Linux / macOS 

•  Frontend Framework: React Native with Expo 

•  Programming Language: JavaScript / TypeScript 

 
 
 
 
•  Local Storage: AsyncStorage 

•  Code Editor: Visual Studio Code 

•  Version Control: Git and GitHub 

•  Testing Tool: Jest (for basic testing) 

•  Browser (for web testing): Google Chrome / Firefox / Edge (latest versions 

recommended) 

FinTrac does not require expensive hardware or licensed software. A basic laptop or desktop 

system with an internet connection is sufficient for development and usage. Since all tools and 

frameworks used are open-source, there is no additional cost involved. This makes the project 

suitable for student-level development and allows easy scalability and enhancement in  

The future. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Software Requirements Specification 

3.1  Users 

Every software system is built for a set of people who are going to use it. In FinTrac, users can 

be broadly divided into two main categories: guest users and registered users. In addition to 

these,  an  admin  role  can  be  introduced  in  the  future  if  required.  Each  type  of  user  has  a 

different level of access and a different purpose while using the application. 

1. Guest Users 

Guest users are people who open the application without creating an account. These users 

are  usually  first-time  visitors  who  want  to  understand  what  the  platform  offers  before 

signing up. Their access is intentionally limited. 

•  They can view only sample or demo screens of the application. 

•  They can explore a basic overview of features such as transaction tracking, budgeting, 

and goal management. 

•  They cannot add income or expense transactions. 

•  They cannot create budgets or savings goals. 

•  They do not have access to a personal dashboard or data storage. 

The main purpose of guest users is to get an idea of how FinTrac works. This allows users to 

decide whether the application suits their needs before registering. 

2. Registered Users 

Registered users are those who have created an account and logged into the system. 

They receive full access to all features of the application. 

•  They can add, edit, and delete income and expense transactions. 

•  They can create and manage category-wise budgets and monitor spending limits. 

•  They can set savings goals and track progress over time. 

•  They can manage multiple accounts such as bank, wallet, or cash records. 

•  They can view a personalized dashboard that displays their financial summary. 

•  All their financial data is saved securely and remains private. 

The main purpose of registered users is to use the application regularly as part of their daily 

financial routine. The dashboard provides a sense of ownership and helps users track their 

financial activities in an organized manner.

 
 
 
 
3. Admin Users (optional/future) 

At present, FinTrac does not include an admin panel. However, in the future, an admin role can 

be introduced to manage and maintain the system. Possible responsibilities may include: 

•  Managing application updates and maintenance. 

•  Monitoring system performance and stability. 

•  Handling user feedback and technical issues. 

The admin role would not have access to individual user financial data, ensuring privacy and 

security. 

User Flow Summary: 

•  Guest Users → Limited access for exploration only. 

•  Registered Users → Full access after login. 

•  Admin Users (Future) → System management and maintenance. 

This user structure is kept simple to ensure ease of use and clarity. Introducing too many 

user roles could make the system complex and confusing, especially for students and 

general users. By maintaining clear and limited user roles, FinTrac remains easy to 
understand, efficient to use, and suitable for everyday personal finance management. 

3.2  Functional Requirements 

Functional requirements describe what the system must do. These are the core features and 

actions  that  FinTrac  performs  when  users  interact  with  it.  Without  these  functions,  the 

application  would  not  fulfill  its  purpose  of  helping  users  manage  their  personal  finances 

effectively. The main functional requirements of the FinTrac project are listed below. 

1. User Authentication 

•  New users should be able to register by providing basic details such as name, email, 

and password. 

•  Existing users should be able to log in using their registered credentials. 

• 

Login credentials must be validated before granting access. 

•  The system should allow users to log out securely. 

• 

If incorrect login details are entered, the system should display an appropriate error 

message. 

This functionality is necessary to differentiate between guest users and registered users and to 

protect personal financial data. 

 
 
2. Dashboard Access 

•  After successful login, users should be redirected to their personal dashboard. 

•  The dashboard should display a summary of the user’s financial information. 

• 

It  should provide  navigation options for transactions,  budgets,  goals,  accounts,  and 

reports. 

•  Guest users should not have access to the dashboard. 

3.  Account Management 

•  Registered users should be able to add multiple financial accounts such as bank, wallet, 

or cash. 

•  Users should be able to view account balances. 

•  Users should be able to edit or delete accounts if required. 

•  The system should update balances automatically when transactions are added. 

4. Transaction Management 

•  Users should be able to add income and expense transactions. 

•  Each transaction should include amount, category, date, and description. 

•  Users should be able to view a list of all transactions. 

•  Users should be able to edit or delete transactions. 

•  Transactions should be categorized for better tracking. 

5. Budget Management 

•  Users should be able to create monthly budgets for different categories. 

•  The system should track spending against the set budget. 

•  Visual indicators should show budget usage. 

•  The system should alert users when spending approaches or exceeds the budget limit. 

6. Savings Goal Management 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

- Users should be able to create savings goals with target amounts. 

- Users should be able to set deadlines for goals. 

- The system should track progress towards each goal. 

- Users should be able to add contributions to goals. 

- Goal completion should be clearly indicated. 

7. Reports and Analytics 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The system should generate income vs expense summaries. 

• 

• 

• 

 Users should be able to view category-wise spending reports. 

 Monthly financial trends should be displayed. 

 Reports should help users understand their financial behavior. 

8. Guest User Flow 

•  Guest users should be able to explore limited demo features. 

•  Guest users should not be allowed to add transactions or save data. 

•  Guest  users  should  see  login  or  signup  prompts  when  attempting  to  access  full 

features. 

9. Error Handling 

•  The system should display user-friendly error messages for invalid inputs. 

• 

• 

 Empty or incorrect fields should not be accepted. 

 The application should handle errors gracefully without crashing. 

10. Logout and Session Management 

•  Users should be able to log out at any time. 

•  After  logout,  users  should  not  be  able  to  access  the  dashboard  without  logging  in 

again. 

•  User session data should be cleared after logout to ensure security. 

The  functional  requirements  of  FinTrac  focus  on  providing  a  complete,  simple,  and  secure 

personal finance management experience. By supporting transaction tracking, budgeting, goal 

setting,  and  reporting,  the  system  helps  users  manage  their  finances  efficiently  while 

maintaining data privacy and ease of use. 

3.3 Non-Functional Requirements 

While  functional  requirements  describe  what  the  system  does,  non-functional  requirements 

explain  how  well  the  system  should  perform.  These  requirements  focus  on  quality, 

performance, reliability, security, and user experience rather than specific features. For FinTrac, 

the main non-functional requirements are described below. 

1. Performance Requirements 

•  The application should load within a few seconds on a normal device. 

•  Adding or viewing transactions should be fast and responsive. 

•  Navigation between dashboard screens should not lag. 

•  Local data operations such as saving budgets or goals should execute smoothly. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Even with a large number of stored transactions, the system should remain stable. 

Since FinTrac is meant for regular financial tracking, smooth and quick performance is important 

so users can record transactions without delay. 

2. Security Requirements 

•  User login credentials must be handled securely. 

•  Only registered users should be able to access personal financial data. 

•  Guest users must not be able to view or modify stored financial information. 

•  After logging out, users should not be able to access the dashboard without logging in 

again. 

•  User data should remain private and protected from unauthorized access. 

As  FinTrac  deals with  sensitive  financial  information,  security  is  a  critical  requirement  of the 

system. 

3. Usability Requirements 

•  The application should be easy to use without any training. 

•  The interface should be clean and well-organized. 

•  Navigation options should be clearly visible on the dashboard. 

•  Buttons and forms should be simple and understandable. 

•  The system should be usable by students, professionals, and non-technical users. 

Good usability ensures that users can manage their finances comfortably and consistently. 

4. Reliability Requirements 

•  The system should function correctly without frequent crashes. 

•  User data such as transactions, budgets, and goals should be saved accurately. 

• 

In  case  of  errors,  the  system  should  display  a  proper  message  instead  of  failing 

completely. 

•  Stored financial data should not be lost during normal usage. 

Reliability helps users trust the application and rely on it for long-term financial tracking. 

5. Maintainability Requirements 

•  The codebase should be well-structured and easy to understand. 

•  Features should be modular so updates can be added easily. 

•  Bug fixes should not affect existing functionality. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Future enhancements should be simple to implement. 

Since  FinTrac  is  a  student  project  with  potential  for  future  development,  maintainability  is 

essential. 

6. Portability Requirements 

•  The application should run on Android, iOS, and web platforms. 

• 

It should support major operating systems such as Windows, macOS, and Linux. 

•  The user interface should be responsive and adapt to different screen sizes. 

Portability ensures that the system is accessible to users across multiple devices. 

7. Scalability Requirements 

•  The system should support an increasing number of transactions per user. 

•  Storage should handle growing financial records over time. 

•  The application should allow future upgrades if usage increases. 

•  Additional features can be added without redesigning the entire system. 

Scalability  ensures  that  FinTrac  can  grow  beyond  a  small  student  project  and  support  more 

users if needed. 

The non-functional requirements of FinTrac ensure that the system is not only functional but 

also  reliable,  secure,  user-friendly,  and  future-ready.  These  qualities  are  important  because 

even  a  feature-rich  system  will  fail  if  it  is  slow,  unsafe,  or  difficult  to  use.  Together,  these 

requirements  help  make  FinTrac  a  trustworthy  and  practical  personal  finance  management 

application. 

 
 
 
 
4. System Design 
System design forms the backbone of the project, as it explains how different components of 

the  system  work  together  to  deliver  the  required  functionality.  While  the  requirement 

specification phase focused on what the system should do, the design phase focuses on how 

the system achieves those requirements in a structured and efficient manner. 

The  design  of  FinTrac  has  been  planned  in  such  a  way  that  the  system  remains  modular, 

scalable, and easy to maintain. Each major module such as transaction management, budget 

tracking, savings goals, and account management operates independently but interacts through 

a  common  application  structure.  This  modular  approach  allows  individual  features  to  be 

updated or extended without affecting the entire system. 

At a high level, FinTrac follows a three-tier architecture, which separates the system into distinct 

layers. This separation improves clarity, maintainability, and overall system performance. 

Presentation Layer (Frontend) 

The presentation layer is responsible for providing the user interface through which users interact with 

the application. In FinTrac, this layer is developed using React Native and Expo. It includes screens such 

as login and registration, dashboard, transactions, budgets, goals, and account management. This layer 

handles user input, displays financial information, and provides navigation between different sections 

of the application. 

Application Layer (Business Logic) 

The application layer contains the core logic of the system. It processes user actions such as adding 

transactions, updating budgets, calculating balances, and tracking goal progress. This layer ensures 

that data is validated before being stored and that business rules are followed consistently. It acts as a 

bridge between the user interface and the data storage layer. 

Data Layer (Local Storage) 

The data layer is responsible for storing and retrieving user data. In FinTrac, this is handled using local 

storage mechanisms such as AsyncStorage. Financial data including accounts, transactions, budgets, 

and goals are stored securely on the user’s device. This approach supports offline usage and enhances 

data privacy, as information is not dependent on cloud servers. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following diagram illustrates the high-level architecture of the system: 

 
 
1.1  System Perspective 

The  system  design  of  FinTrac  is  built  around  a  simple  and  well-structured  architecture.  It  follows  a 

modular application model where the frontend interacts with the internal application logic and local 

data  storage  to  manage  financial  information  efficiently.  Since  FinTrac  is  designed  as  an  offline-first 

application, most operations are performed locally on the user’s device, ensuring privacy and availability 

without continuous internet dependency. 

At a high level, the system consists of three main components: 

1.  Frontend (User Interface): 

o  Developed using React Native with Expo. 

o  This layer is what the user directly sees and interacts with. 

o 

It  includes  screens  such  as  login/signup,  dashboard,  transactions,  budgets,  savings 

goals, accounts, and reports. 

o  The frontend captures user input and displays financial data in a clear and organized 

format. 

o 

It communicates with the application logic layer to process user actions. 

2.  Backend (Server Logic): 

o 

Implemented using JavaScript and React Native logic. 

o  This  layer  handles  core  functionalities  such  as  transaction  validation,  budget 

calculations, balance updates, and goal progress tracking. 

o 

It manages user authentication flow and ensures that only authorized users can access 

personal financial data. 

o 

It acts as a bridge between the user interface and the data storage layer. 

3.  Database (Storage Layer): 

o  Uses AsyncStorage for local data persistence. 

o  Stores user-related information such as accounts, transactions, budgets, and goals. 

o  Data is saved in structured key-value format. 

o  Each user’s data is stored separately to avoid data mixing and ensure privacy.

 
 
 
 
 
 
System Integration 

o  The user performs an action on the frontend, such as adding a transaction or creating a 

budget. 

o  The application layer validates the input and applies business rules. 

o  The data layer stores or retrieves the required information. 

o  The processed data is then sent back to the frontend and displayed to the user. 

External Systems and Constraints 

o  Since FinTrac stores data locally, internet access is not required for daily usage. 

o 

Internet  connectivity 

is  only  needed  during  development,  updates,  or  future 

enhancements. 

o  The application depends on devices supporting modern mobile operating systems and 

JavaScript. 

o  Storage limitations of the device may affect the amount of data stored. 

The  following  diagram  illustrates  the  system  perspective  of  Fintrac  in  relation  to  its 

components and external environment. 

In simple words, FinTrac follows a three-layer structure consisting of the frontend, application 

logic, and data storage layers. Each layer has a specific responsibility, but they work together to 

provide  users  with  a  smooth  and  reliable  experience.  This  system  perspective  shows  that 

 
 
 
 
 
 
FinTrac is lightweight, well-organized, and easy to maintain, making it suitable for future  

Enhancements and expansion 

1.2 Context Diagram 

A context diagram represents a high-level view of the system and shows how it interacts with external 

entities. It is also referred to as a Level 0 Data Flow Diagram (DFD). The main purpose of this diagram is 

to  represent  the  entire  system  as  a  single  process  and  illustrate  its  interaction  with  users  and other 

components. 

For the FinTrac system, the main external entities are: 

1. Guest User 

2. Registered User 

3. Admin (Future Scope) 

4. Local Storage (AsyncStorage) 

The main system is represented as the FinTrac Application. 

How the Interactions Work: 

Guest User → FinTrac: 

- Can explore limited demo features of the application. 

- Can view sample dashboards or feature previews. 

- Cannot add transactions, budgets, or goals. 

- No personal financial data is stored for guest users. 

Registered User → FinTrac: 

- Logs in using valid credentials. 

- Can add, edit, and view income and expense transactions. 

- Can create and manage budgets and savings goals. 

- Can manage multiple accounts such as bank, wallet, or cash. 

- Receives a personalized dashboard displaying financial summaries. 

Admin (Future Role) → FinTrac: 

- Manages application maintenance and updates. 

- Handles system-level configurations. 

- Monitors application performance and stability. 

- Does not access individual user financial data. 

 
 
 
 
 
FinTrac → Local Storage (AsyncStorage): 

- Stores user accounts, transactions, budgets, and goals. 

- Retrieves stored financial data for display on the dashboard. 

- Updates stored data when users modify or add records. 

- Maintains data separation for different users. 

The context diagram of FinTrac explains the interaction between users, the application, and the 

data storage layer. It shows that guest users are given limited access for exploration, registered 

users have full access to manage their financial data, and a possible admin role handles system 

maintenance in the future. All user data such as transactions, budgets, and goals is managed 

through local storage. This diagram is useful because it provides a clear high-level view of the 

system before moving into more detailed design stages.

 
 
5. Detailed Design 

5.1 Use Case Diagram 

A Use Case Diagram is a type of UML diagram that explains how different users interact with the 

system.  It  focuses  on  the  system’s  functionality  from  the  user’s  point  of  view  rather  than 

technical implementation. For the  FinTrac project,  three types of users are considered: Guest 

User, Registered User, and Admin (future role). Each user has different responsibilities and access 

levels. 

Actors in the System 

1. Guest User 

A guest user is anyone who opens the FinTrac application without logging in. The main purpose 

of  a  guest  user  is  to  explore  the  application  before  registering.  Guest  users  are  given  limited 

access so that they understand the value of the system while still being encouraged to create an 

account. Guest users can: 

•  View sample or demo screens of the application. 

•  Explore basic features such as transaction tracking and budgeting in preview mode. 

•  Navigate through the application interface. 

•  Sign up or log in to access full functionality. 

These  limitations  are  intentional  so  that  users  register  to  store  and  manage  their  personal 

financial data securely. 

2. Registered User 

Registered users are the primary users of the FinTrac system. Once a user signs up and logs in, 

they gain full access to all features of the application. Registered users can: 

•  Add, edit, and delete income and expense transactions. 

•  Create and manage monthly budgets. 

•  Set savings goals and track their progress. 

•  Manage multiple financial accounts such as bank, wallet, or cash. 

•  View a personalized dashboard displaying financial summaries. 

•  View reports and financial trends. 

• 

Log out securely from the application. 

Registered users make the application meaningful because their financial data is stored securely 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and can be accessed whenever they log in. 

3. Admin (Future Role) 

Currently, FinTrac is designed mainly for end users. However, in the future, an Admin role can be 

introduced to manage and maintain the system. The admin would be responsible for: 

•  Managing application updates and maintenance. 

•  Monitoring system performance. 

•  Handling user-related issues or misuse. 

•  Ensuring the smooth functioning of the application. 

Although the admin role is not part of the current implementation, it will be important if the 

system is expanded for large-scale usage. 

Use Cases in FinTrac 

Below is the detailed explanation of each use case: 

Use Case 

Login 

Actor 

Description 

Goal 

Registered User 

User enters email and 

Authenticate user 

password. The  

System checks  

Credentials in  

PostgreSQL. 

 If  valid, 

they  get 

access to dashboard. 

Sign Up 

Guest User 

Guest provides details 

Register new user 

(name, email,  

password).  

The    system  creates 

a new account. 

View Dashboard 

Registered User 

User  views  financial 

Overview of finances 

Add Transaction 

Registered User 

User inputs income or 

Record financial  

summary, charts, and 

recent transactions. 

expense 

details 

activity 

(amount, 

category, 

date). Data is stored. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
AI Insights 

Registered User 

User  asks  questions 

Receive financial  

or  views  spending 

guidance 

advice  from  Gemini 

AI. 

Manage Budgets 

Registered User 

User  sets  limits  for 

Control spending 

categories. 

System 

tracks  progress  and 

alerts on 

overspending. 

View Reports 

Registered User 

User  views  detailed 

Analyze financial  

analysis and  

trends 

generates PDF  

reports  of  financial 

health. 

Manage Profile 

Registered User 

User updates  

Maintain account  

personal info,  

details 

currency  settings,  or 

preferences. 

Admin Panel 

Admin 

Admin manages  

System 

users and system  

administration 

configurations 

(Future Scope). 

Login 

The  login  use  case  allows  registered  users  to  access  the  FinTrac  application  securely.  In  this 

process,  the  user  enters  their  registered  email  and  password.  The  system  validates  these 

credentials  and  verifies  the  user’s  identity.  If  the  entered  details  are  correct,  the  user  is 

successfully logged in and redirected to the personal dashboard. If the credentials are incorrect, 

the system displays an appropriate error message and denies access. 

This  use  case  ensures  that  only  authorized  users  can  access  personal  financial  data  such  as 

transactions, budgets, and savings goals. It plays a crucial role in maintaining data privacy and 

security within the system. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up 

The sign-up use case allows new users to create an account in the FinTrac system. Guest users 

who want to access full features such as transaction tracking, budget management, and goal 

setting must register first. During registration, users are required to provide basic details such 

as name, email address, and password. 

Once  the  details  are  submitted,  the  system  creates  a  new  user  account  and  stores  the 

information  securely.  After  successful  registration,  users  can  log  in  anytime  using  their 

credentials.  This  use  case  is  important  because  it  converts  first-time  visitors  into  registered 

users and enables long-term use of the application for managing personal finances. 

Transaction Management 

Registered users  can use  this use  case to  record their financial  activities.  A user  can add  a 

transaction by selecting whether it is an income or an expense, entering the amount, choosing 

a category, and providing an optional description. Each transaction is automatically saved with 

the date and time. Users can later view the history of all transactions, edit existing entries, or 

delete them if needed. This use case helps users keep a clear and organized record of their 

daily spending and earnings. 

 
 
 
 
Budget Management 

The budget management use case allows users to plan their monthly expenses. Users can set 

a  budget  limit  for  different  categories  such  as  food,  travel,  or  utilities.  Once  a  budget  is 

created, the system continuously tracks spending against the defined limit. Users can view 

how much of the budget is used and how much remains. Budgets can be modified or removed 

if  financial  plans  change.  This  feature  supports  financial  discipline  and  helps  users  avoid 

overspending. 

Savings Goals 

Savings goals are accessible only to registered users. In this use case, users can create a goal 

by specifying a target amount and a deadline. Contributions can be added over time, and the 

system automatically updates the progress. Users can view goal completion percentage and 

                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
track  how  close  they  are  to  achieving  their  target.  Goals  can  also  be  edited  or  deleted  if 

required. This use case encourages long-term financial planning and motivation. 

Financial Reports 

The  reports  use  case  allows  users  to  analyze  their  financial  behavior.  Users  can  view 

summaries  such  as  income  versus  expenses,  category-wise  spending,  and  monthly  trends. 

These  reports  are  generated  from  stored  transaction  data  and  presented  in  a  simple  and 

understandable format. Reports help users reflect on their financial habits and make informed 

decisions for the future. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
 
 
 
The use case diagram for FinTrac covers all the key interactions within the system. Guest users 

are allowed limited access to explore the application, but they must register to use the full set 

of features. Registered users have complete access to manage transactions, budgets, goals, and 

reports, while a future admin role helps in maintaining and managing the system. By clearly 

separating  user  roles  and  access  levels,  FinTrac  ensures  both  security  and  ease  of  use. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                      
5.2  Sequence Diagrams 

A sequence diagram illustrates the order in which actions occur within a system. It is a type of 

UML  diagram  that  focuses  on  time-based  interactions  between  the  user,  the  application 

interface, and the data storage layer. 

 The  diagram  uses  lifelines  (vertical  dashed  lines)  and  messages  (horizontal  arrows)  to 

represent the step-by-step flow of operations. 

In  FinTrac,  sequence  diagrams  help  explain  how  user  requests  such  as  login,  adding 

transactions, or saving budgets move through the system and interact with local data storage. 

Sequence Diagram for Login Steps 

1.  The user opens the FinTrac login screen. 

2.  The user enters their registered email and password. 

3.  The system sends the login request to the authentication logic. 

4.  The authentication module checks the entered credentials against the stored user 

data. 

5.  The data storage layer responds with a validation result (valid or invalid). 

6.  If the credentials are valid, the user is redirected to the personal dashboard. 

7.  If the credentials are invalid, an error message is displayed on the screen

 
 
 
1. Sequence Diagram for Sign Up 

Steps 

1.  Guest opens the sign-up page. 

2.  Guest enters details (name, email, password). 

3.  System checks if email already exists in MongoDB. 

4.  If unique, the system creates a new account. 

5.  Confirmation message is shown to the user. 

Lifelines and Messages 

Actor 

User 

Message 

Receiver 

Description 

Enter email & 

Login Screen 

Provides login 

password 

credentials 

Login Screen 

Send login request 

Authentication 

Forwards login 

Module 

request 

Authentication 

Verify credentials 

Local Storage 

Checks stored user 

Module 

data 

Local Storage 

Return result 

Authentication 

Valid or Invalid 

Module 

response 

Authentication 

Display output 

User 

Dashboard access or 

Module 

error message 

This sequence prevents unauthorized users from accessing the FinTrac system. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Sequence Diagram for Transaction Management Steps 

•  Registered user clicks on the Add Transaction option. 

•  The  system  displays  the  transaction  form  with  fields  such  as  amount,  category,  type 

(income/expense), and date. 

•  User enters the transaction details and submits the form. 

•  The system validates the entered data and stores the transaction in local storage along 

with the date and user ID. 

•  Confirmation is displayed on the screen, and the updated balance is reflected on the 

dashboard. 
Lifelines and Messages 

Actor 
User 

Transaction Page 

Transaction 
Controller 
Local Storage 

Transaction 
Controller 

Message 
Enter transaction 
details 
Send data 

Save transaction 
entry 
Respond success 

Receiver 
Transaction Page 

Transaction 
Controller 
Local Storage 

Transaction 
Controller 

Display confirmation  User 

Description 
Provides transaction 
data 
Processes user input 

Stores transaction 
with date and user ID 
Confirms transaction 
saved 
Shows 'Transaction 
saved' 

This sequence ensures that all transactions entered by the user are securely stored and 

properly reflected in the system. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Sequence Diagram for Budget  Management                                         

Steps 

1. Registered user opens the Budget Management page. 

2. User enters budget details such as category and monthly limit. 

3. The system sends the budget data to the budget controller. 

4. The budget controller stores the data in local storage linked to the user ID. 

5. A confirmation message is displayed to the user. 

6. When the user views budgets later, stored budget data is retrieved and displayed. 

Lifelines and Messages 

Actor 

User 

Message 

Receiver 

Description 

Enter budget details 

Budget Page 

Provides category 

and limit 

Budget Page 

Send budget data 

Budget Controller 

Processes request 

Budget Controller 

Save budget 

Local Storage 

Stores budget with 

user ID 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local Storage 

Confirm save 

Budget Controller 

Budget saved 

successfully 

Budget Controller 

Display confirmation  User 

Shows 'Budget saved' 

User 

Request budget view  Budget Controller 

Wants budget history 

Budget Controller 

Fetch budgets 

Local Storage 

Retrieves stored 

Local Storage 

Send budgets 

Budget Controller 

Returns saved 

budgets 

Budget Controller 

Show budgets 

User 

Displays budget list 

budgets 

Sequence Diagram for Savings Goal  

Steps 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 
 
 
1. User opens the Savings Goals page. 

2. The Goals Page requests saved goals from the Goals Controller. 

3. The Goals Controller fetches goal data from local storage. 

4. Stored goals are returned and sent back to the Goals Page. 

5. The Goals Page displays the list of savings goals to the user. 

6. User creates or updates a savings goal by entering target amount and deadline. 

7. The system stores the goal details linked to the user. 

8. Confirmation is displayed and goal progress is updated. 

Lifelines and Messages 

Actor 

User 

Message 

Receiver 

Description 

Open Goals Page 

Goals Page 

Starts the request 

Goals Page 

Request goals 

Goals Controller 

Sends request for 

goal data 

Goals Controller 

Fetch goals 

Local Storage 

Retrieves goals based 

on user ID 

Local Storage 

Return goals 

Goals Controller 

Responds with saved 

goals 

Goals Controller 

Send goals 

Goals Page 

Provides goal list 

Goals Page 

Display goals 

User 

Shows goals on 

screen 

User 

Add / update goal 

Goals Page 

Submits goal details 

Goals Page 

Save goal 

Goals Controller 

Processes goal 

request 

Goals Controller 

Store goal 

Local Storage 

Saves goal with 

progress 

Local Storage 

Confirm save 

Goals Controller 

Goal saved 

successfully 

Goals Controller 

Display confirmation  User 

Shows goal saved 

message 

 
 
 
This flow ensures that guest users can access only limited preview features, while registered 

users  are  granted  full  access  to  manage  their  financial  data.  It  also  allows  users  to  view 

detailed information such as individual transactions, budgets, or savings goals by retrieving 

the complete data stored in the system. 

The sequence diagrams of FinTrac illustrate how the system processes key use cases in a 

step-by-step  manner.  Login  and  Sign  Up  operations  ensure  secure  access  to  the 

application,  while  features  such  as  transaction  management,  budget  planning,  and 

savings  goal  tracking  help  users  manage  their  finances  effectively.  Each  sequence 

demonstrates  proper  interaction  between  the  user,  the  application  interface,  and  the 
data storage layer, ensuring accuracy, security, and smooth system operation.  

Collaboration Diagrams 

A Collaboration Diagram is another UML design diagram that shows how objects connect with 

one another. It resembles a sequence diagram, but instead of showing vertical timelines, it 

emphasizes the relationships (links) between objects. 

In short: 

•  Sequence Diagram → focuses on “when” interactions happen. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
•  Collaboration Diagram → focuses on “who talks to whom” in the system. 

Both diagrams are complementary, and in the FinTrac project, they help in understanding how 

the system is structured and how different components interact with each other in a clear and 

organized manner. 

1. Collaboration Diagram for Transaction Management 

 Objects Involved 

1. User 

2. Transaction Page (User Interface) 

3. Transaction Controller 

4. Local Storage (AsyncStorage) 

Interactions 

1. The user enters transaction details on the Transaction Page. 

2. The Transaction Page forwards the transaction data to the Transaction Controller. 

3. The Transaction Controller validates the transaction details. 

4. The Transaction Controller stores the transaction data in Local Storage linked with the user ID. 

5. Local Storage returns a confirmation message to the Transaction Controller. 

6. The Transaction Controller sends a success or failure response to the Transaction Page. 

7. The Transaction Page displays a confirmation message or error to the user. 

2.  Collaboration Diagram for Budget Management 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Objects Involved 

o  User 

o  Budget Management UI Page 

o  Budget Controller 

o  Local Storage (AsyncStorage) 

Interactions 

1. User enters budget details such as category and limit and clicks the 'Save' button. 

2. The Budget Management UI forwards the request to the Budget Controller. 

3. The Budget Controller validates the budget data and stores it in Local Storage. 

4. Local Storage confirms successful saving of the budget. 

5. The Budget Controller notifies the UI, which displays a confirmation message to the user. 

6.  When  the  user  requests  to view  budgets,  the  Budget  Controller  retrieves  budget  data  from  Local 

Storage and displays it on the UI. 

3. Collaboration Diagram for Saving Goal Management  

Objects Involved 

o  User 

o  Savings Goal Page (UI) 

o  Savings Controller 

o  Local Storage (AsyncStorage) 

 
 
 
 
 
Interactions 

1. The user opens the Savings Goal page and enters goal details such as target amount and target date. 

2. The Savings Goal Page sends the entered details to the Savings Controller. 

3. The Savings Controller validates the data and prepares it for storage. 

4. The Savings Controller stores the savings goal information in Local Storage along with the user ID. 

5. Local Storage sends a success confirmation back to the Savings Controller. 

6. The Savings Controller notifies the Savings Goal Page about the successful operation. 

7. The Savings Goal Page displays a confirmation message and updated goal progress to the user. 

8. When the user revisits the goals page, stored savings goals are retrieved and displayed. 

1. Collaboration Diagram for Financial Reports 

Objects Involved 

1. User 

2. Financial Reports Page 

3. Reports Controller 

4. Local Storage (AsyncStorage) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions 

1. User opens the Financial Reports page. 

2. Financial Reports Page sends a request to the Reports Controller. 

3. Reports Controller queries Local Storage for transaction and budget data. 

4. Local Storage returns the required financial data. 

5. Reports Controller processes the data and generates summaries. 

6. Reports Controller forwards the report data to the Financial Reports Page. 

7. Financial Reports Page displays charts and summaries to the user. 

8. If the user changes filters (date/category), the process repeats from Step 2. 

The collaboration diagrams of FinTrac (Login, Transaction Management, Budget Management, 

Savings Goals, and Financial Reports) clearly show how different system components interact 

with each other. They help in understanding how various modules work together to complete 

a single operation in an organized manner. 

•  Transaction  Management  collaboration  shows  how  users  add,  store,  and  retrieve 

income and expense records through proper coordination between the user interface, 

controller, and storage layer. 

•  Budget Management collaboration illustrates how users create and manage budgets, 

and how budget data is saved and fetched to track spending limits. 

•  Savings  Goals  collaboration  demonstrates  how  users  set  financial  goals,  update 

progress, and view goal details in a structured flow. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Financial Reports collaboration highlights how the system gathers stored financial data, 

processes it, and presents meaningful summaries and charts to the user. 

Together, these collaboration diagrams provide a complete view of system communication in 

FinTrac  and  strengthen  the  overall  design  documentation  by  clearly  explaining  object-level 

interactions. 

5.3 Activity Diagram 

1. An  Activity  Diagram  is  a  type  of  UML  diagram  that  represents  the  flow  of  activities  within  a 

system. It works similar to a flowchart, but it focuses on how a process moves from one step to 

another, including decision points and possible parallel actions. 

2. In the FinTrac project, activity diagrams help in understanding the workflows of key features. 

Since the application includes multiple modules such as Login, Transaction Management, Budget 

Planning,  Savings  Goals,  and  Financial  Reports,  separate  activity  diagrams  are  used  for  each 

module to clearly represent their individual processes and interactions.  

Activity Diagram for Transaction Management 

Steps in the Process 

•  User selects the option to add a new transaction. 

•  System displays the transaction entry form and checks whether all required fields 

(amount, category, type) are filled. 

• 

• 

If any field is empty or invalid → an error message is shown to the user. 

If all details are valid → the system processes the transaction data. 

•  System  saves  the  transaction  details  in  the  storage  layer  linked  to  the  user’s 

account. 

•  Confirmation message is displayed, and the updated transaction is reflected on the 

dashboard. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Activity Diagram for Budget Management 

Steps in the Process 

•  User opens the Budget Management section from the dashboard. 

•  System displays the budget creation or update form. 

•  User enters budget details such as category and budget limit. 

•  System checks whether all required fields are filled correctly. 

• 

• 

If any field is missing or invalid → an error message is shown to the user. 

If all details are valid → the system saves the budget information linked to the user 

account. 

•  System updates the budget status and spending summary. 

Confirmation message is displayed to the user, and the process ends. 

 
 
 
4. Activity Diagram for Saving Goal Management 

Steps in the Process 

1.  User opens the Savings Goal section from the dashboard. 

2.  System displays the savings goal creation form. 

3.  User enters savings goal details such as goal name, target amount, and target date. 

4.  System validates the entered details to ensure all required fields are filled correctly. 

5.  If any field is missing or invalid → an error message is shown to the user. 

6.  If all details are valid → the system saves the savings goal information linked to the 

user account. 

7.  System calculates and updates the goal progress. 

8.  Confirmation message is displayed to the user, and the process ends. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Activity Diagram for  Steps in the Process 

•  User opens the Financial Reports section from the dashboard. 

•  System retrieves stored transaction, budget, and savings data. 

•  System processes the data to calculate totals, summaries, and trends. 

•  User selects filters such as date range or category (if required). 

•  System updates the report based on the selected filters. 

•  System generates visual summaries such as charts or tables. 

•  Financial report is displayed to the user in an easy-to-understand format. 

•  User reviews the report, and the process ends. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity  diagrams  for  FinTrac  clearly  explain  how  different  workflows  operate  within  the 

system: 

o  Transaction  Management:  Handles  proper  entry,  validation,  and  storage  of 

income and expense records. 

o  Budget Management: Supports planning, validating, and saving budget limits for 

better spending control. 

o  Savings  Goals:  Manages  goal  creation,  progress  tracking,  and  completion 

updates. 

o  Financial Reports: Retrieves and processes stored data to generate meaningful 

summaries and insights. 

        By breaking down these activities into clear steps, the activity diagrams help visualize how 

the system behaves in different situations. This makes development, testing, debugging, and 
future enhancements easier and more structured. 

5.  Database Design 

The database acts as the backbone of FinTrac because it stores all user-related financial data 

such as transactions, budgets, savings goals, and account information. For this project, a 

structured storage approach is used to manage data efficiently and securely. Instead of 

relying on traditional table-based storage, the system organizes information in logical data 

collections linked to individual users. 

To clearly represent the database design in the project report, ER diagrams (Entity–

Relationship diagrams) or conceptual schemas are used. These diagrams help explain how 

different entities such as users, transactions, budgets, and goals are related to each other. 

They provide a clear understanding of data flow and relationships, making the database 

structure easier to understand and maintain. 

Main Entities in FinTrac Database 

1.  User Collection 

o  userId (Primary Key) 

o  name 

o  email 

 
 
 
 
 
 
o  password 

o  dateOfSignup 

2.  Account Collection 

o  accountId (Primary Key) 

o  userId (Foreign Key → User) 

o  accountName (Bank, Wallet, Cash, etc.) 

o  accountType 

o  balance 

o  createdAt 

3.  Transaction Collection 

o 

transactionId (Primary Key) 

o  userId (Foreign Key → User) 

o  accountId (Foreign Key → Account) 

o 

type (Income / Expense) 

o  category 

o  amount 

o  description 

o 

transactionDate 

4.  Budget Collection 

o  budgetId (Primary Key) 

o  userId (Foreign Key → User) 

o  category 

o  budgetLimit 

o  month 

o  year 

o  createdAt 

5.  Saving Goal Collection 

o  goalId (Primary Key) 

o  userId (Foreign Key → User) 

o  goalName 

o 

targetAmount 

o  savedAmount 

o 

targetDate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  createdAt 

6.  Report  Collection 

o 

reportId (Primary Key) 

o  userId (Foreign Key → User) 

o 

reportType (Monthly, Category-wise, Summary) 

o  generatedDate 

Entity Relationship Summary 

•  One User can have multiple Accounts, Transactions, Budgets, and Savings Goals. 
•  Each Transaction is linked to one User and one Account. 
•  Budgets and Savings Goals are always associated with a single User. 
•  Reports are generated based on stored financial data and linked to the user. 

Relationships 

•  User ↔ Accounts → One-to-Many 

(One user can create and manage multiple financial accounts such as bank, wallet, or 
cash.) 

•  User ↔ Transactions → One-to-Many 

(One user can record multiple income and expense transactions.) 

•  User ↔ Budgets → One-to-Many 

(One user can set multiple budgets for different categories or months.) 

•  User ↔ Savings Goals → One-to-Many 

(One user can create and track multiple savings goals.) 

•  Accounts ↔ Transactions → One-to-Many 

(One account can have multiple transactions linked to it.) 

•  User ↔ Financial Reports → Indirect Relationship 

(Reports are generated using transaction, budget, and savings data related to the 
user.) 

•  Admin (Future Role) → Will have privileges to manage system-level configurations, 
monitor usage, and maintain application data without accessing individual user 
financial details. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Implementation 

// App.Tsx 
import React from "react"; 

import { StyleSheet } from "react-native"; 

import { NavigationContainer } from "@react-navigation/native"; 

import { GestureHandlerRootView } from "react-native-gesture-handler"; 

import { KeyboardProvider } from "react-native-keyboard-controller"; 

import { SafeAreaProvider } from "react-native-safe-area-context"; 

import { StatusBar } from "expo-status-bar"; 

import { QueryClientProvider } from "@tanstack/react-query"; 

import { queryClient } from "@/lib/query-client"; 

import RootStackNavigator from "@/navigation/RootStackNavigator"; 

import { ErrorBoundary } from "@/components/ErrorBoundary"; 

import { AuthProvider } from "@/contexts/AuthContext"; 

import { FinanceProvider } from "@/contexts/FinanceContext"; 

export default function App() { 

  return ( 

    <ErrorBoundary> 

      <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}> 

        <AuthProvider> 

          <FinanceProvider> 

            <SafeAreaProvider> 

              <GestureHandlerRootView style={styles.root}> 

                <KeyboardProvider> 

                  <NavigationContainer> 

                    <RootStackNavigator /> 

                  </NavigationContainer> 

                  <StatusBar style="auto" /> 

                </KeyboardProvider> 

              </GestureHandlerRootView> 

            </SafeAreaProvider> 

 
 
 
 
 
          </FinanceProvider> 

        </AuthProvider> 

      </QueryClientProvider> 

    </ErrorBoundary> 

  ); 

} 

const styles = StyleSheet.create({ 

  root: { 

    flex: 1, 

  }, 

});

 
 
6.1  Screenshots 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Software Testing 

7.1  Introduction 

Testing is one of the most essential phases of software development. No matter how carefully 

an application is designed and coded, errors or bugs may still occur. Testing helps in identifying 

such issues before the software is released to real users, ensuring reliability and correctness. 

For the FinTrac project, testing plays a crucial role in verifying that financial features such as 

Login,  Transaction  Management,  Budget  Planning,  Savings  Goals,  and  Financial  Reports 

function correctly in real-world usage. Since FinTrac handles sensitive financial data, testing also 

focuses on data accuracy, security, and system stability. 

The main objectives of testing in FinTrac are: 

•  To  verify  that  the  system  meets  the  requirements  specified  in  the  Software 

Requirement Specification (SRS). 

•  To ensure functional correctness, i.e., each module works as expected. 

•  To test non-functional aspects such as performance, usability, and reliability. 

•  To confirm that the system handles both valid and invalid inputs without crashing. 

7.2  Testing Strategy 

For the FinTrac project, a combination of Black Box and White Box testing techniques was applied. 

- Black Box Testing: 

  This testing focuses on system inputs and outputs without considering internal code structure. 

  Example: Entering incorrect login credentials and verifying whether the system displays an 

appropriate error message. 

- White Box Testing: 

  This testing examines the internal logic of the application, including conditions, loops, and data 

handling. 

  Example: Verifying whether transaction validation logic and data storage functions work correctly. 

Additionally, the following testing levels were performed: 

- Unit Testing: 

  Testing individual modules such as Login, Add Transaction, Budget Creation, and Savings Goal 

modules. 

- Integration Testing: 

  Testing combined workflows such as “Login → Add Transaction → Update Budget → View Reports”. 

- System Testing: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  Testing the complete FinTrac application in a real environment to ensure all components work 

together smoothly. 

- User Acceptance Testing (UAT): 

  Evaluating whether the application is user-friendly and meets the expectations of end users. 

7.3 Test Plan 

The  test  plan  defines  what  needs  to  be  tested,  how  it will  be  tested,  and  the environment  in  which 

testing is performed. For FinTrac, the test plan is designed as follows: 

Test Objectives: 

- Ensure all functional modules (Login, Transactions, Budgets, Savings Goals, Reports) work correctly. 

- Ensure correct behavior for valid and invalid user inputs. 

- Ensure financial data is stored, retrieved, and displayed accurately. 

Test Items: 

- Login Module 

- Transaction Management Module 

- Budget Management Module 

- Savings Goals Module 

- Financial Reports Module 

Test Environment: 

- Application Type: Web / Mobile Application 

- Frontend: React Native / React 

- Backend Logic: JavaScript-based application logic 

- Storage: Local Storage / Database 

- Operating System: Windows 10 (development), Android (testing) 

- Browser: Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge 

 
 
 
 
 
7.3  Test Cases 

Below are sample test cases written in tabular format. 

Test Case 1: Transaction Management 

Test Case ID 

Description 

Input 

Expected 

Actual 

Status 

Output 

Output 

TM01 

Add valid 

Amount, 

Transaction 

Saved 

Pass 

transaction 

category, 

saved 

successfully 

type 

TM02 

Invalid 

Negative 

Error 

Error shown 

Pass 

amount 

amount 

message 

TM03 

Empty fields 

Blank input  Warning 

Warning 

Pass 

message 

shown 

TM04 

Delete 

Select 

Transaction 

Deleted 

Pass 

transaction 

transaction 

removed 

successfully 

Test Case 2: Budget Management 

Test Case ID 

Description 

Input 

Expected 

Actual 

Status 

Output 

Output 

BM01 

Create valid 

Category + 

Budget saved  Saved 

Pass 

BM02 

budget 

Invalid 

limit 

successfully 

Negative 

Error 

Error shown 

Pass 

budget limit 

limit 

message 

BM03 

Empty 

Blank input  Warning 

Warning 

Pass 

category 

message 

shown 

BM04 

Edit budget 

Updated 

Budget 

Updated 

Pass 

limit 

updated 

successfully 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test Case 3: Saving Goal Management 

Test Case ID 

Description 

Input 

Expected 

Actual 

Status 

Output 

Output 

SG01 

Create 

Target + date  Goal created 

Created 

Pass 

savings goal 

successfully 

SG02 

Invalid target  Negative 

Error 

Error shown 

Pass 

value 

message 

SG03 

Empty fields 

Blank input  Warning 

Warning 

Pass 

message 

shown 

SG04 

Update 

Add amount 

Progress 

Updated 

Pass 

savings goal 

updated 

successfully 

Test Case 4: Financial Report 

Test Case ID 

Description 

Input 

Expected 

Actual 

Status 

Output 

Output 

FR01 

View 

Select month  Report 

Displayed 

Pass 

monthly 

report 

displayed 

successfully 

FR02 

Filter by 

Select 

Filtered 

Filtered 

Pass 

category 

category 

report 

correctly 

FR03 

No data 

Empty 

No data 

Message 

Pass 

available 

dataset 

message 

shown 

FR04 

Change date 

Custom 

Updated 

Updated 

Pass 

range 

range 

report 

correctly 

7.4  Test Results 
The results of testing for the FinTrac system showed that: 

•  All major modules were functioning correctly as per the requirements. 

•  The system handled both valid and invalid inputs appropriately. 

•  Core features such as transaction entry, budget creation, savings goal tracking, and 

report generation worked as expected. 

•  Data storage and retrieval operations were accurate and consistent. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
•  No critical or blocking bugs remained unresolved after testing. 

Some minor issues observed during testing: 

1.  Financial reports took slightly longer to load when a large number of transactions were 

present. 
(Resolved by optimizing data processing logic). 

2.  Budget update action occasionally required page refresh to reflect changes. 

(Resolved by improving state update handling). 

7.5  Conclusion of Testing 

The testing phase confirmed that the FinTrac system is stable, reliable, and user-friendly. Most 

test  cases  passed  successfully,  and  the  minor  issues  identified  during  testing  were  resolved 

promptly. 

Through systematic testing, confidence was gained that the application can be safely used for 

managing  personal  finances.  Testing  also  verified  that  both  functional  requirements  (such  as 

login,  transaction  management,  and  data  storage)  and  non-functional  requirements  (such  as 

performance, usability, and reliability) were met effectively. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Conclusion 
The  FinTrac  project  was  developed  with  the  objective  of  providing  a  simple,  efficient,  and 

practical personal finance management solution for students and working individuals who want 

better  control  over  their  income,  expenses,  and  savings.  Throughout  the  design  and 

implementation  phases,  emphasis  was  placed  on  building  features  that  are  useful  in  daily 

financial planning, such as Transaction Management, Budget Planning, Savings Goal Tracking, 

and Financial Reports. 

From  the  initial requirement analysis  to  system  testing,  each  module of  the  application  was 

carefully  designed  and  implemented.  The  login  and  authentication  mechanism  ensures  that 

only  registered  users  can  access  personal  financial  data,  thereby  maintaining  privacy  and 

security.  At  the  same  time,  the  system  design  remains  user-friendly  and  easy  to  navigate, 

making it suitable even for non-technical users. 

During the testing phase, all major functionalities performed as expected. The system handled 

both  valid  and  invalid  inputs  efficiently,  and  data  storage  and  retrieval  operations  were 

accurate.  Minor  issues  identified  during  testing  were  resolved  promptly,  improving  overall 

system stability and performance. The lightweight design of FinTrac allows it to run smoothly 

without the need for high-end hardware or complex configurations. 

In  conclusion,  the  FinTrac  project  successfully  achieved  its  intended  objectives.  It  not  only 

demonstrates  the technical  knowledge  and development  skills  gained during  the  course but 

also delivers a practical and reliable solution for managing personal finances. The application 

has strong potential for future enhancements and real-world usage, making it a valuable and 

meaningful project outcome. 

 
 
 
 
9. Future Enhancements 

Though the project is currently running alright, there exist numerous avenues through which 

to advance with it. A few recommendations to make in the future include: 

•  Cloud Synchronization 

Currently, FinTrac stores data locally. In the future, cloud integration can be added so users 

can access their financial data across multiple devices securely. 

•  Bank Integration and Automatic Transaction Import 

FinTrac can be enhanced by integrating with bank APIs to automatically fetch transactions, 

reducing manual data entry and improving accuracy. 

•  Advanced Financial Analytics 

More  detailed  analytics  such  as  spending  predictions,  trend  analysis,  and  personalized 

insights can be introduced to help users make better financial decisions. 

•  Reminder and Notification System 

A  reminder  feature  can  be  added  to  notify  users  about  upcoming  bills,  budget  limits,  or 

savings goal deadlines through notifications or emails. 

•  Multi-Currency Support 

Supporting  multiple  currencies  will  make  the  application  useful  for  users  who  travel 

frequently or manage finances across different countries. 

•  Export and Report Sharing 

Users  can  be  given  the  option  to  export  financial  reports  in  formats  like  PDF  or  Excel  for 

personal records or sharing with others. 

•  Role-Based Access and Admin Panel 

An admin panel can be introduced in the future to manage system settings, user support, and 

application  monitoring  without  accessing  private  user  data.These  changes  can  enable  the 

platform to be more interactive, smarter and more helpful to many users. 

These future enhancements will make FinTrac more powerful, flexible, and suitable for large-

scale real-world usage while maintaining ease of use and security.

 
 
Appendix A – Bibliography 

When  I  was developing the  FinTrac  project,  I  perused  various  materials to  learn  concepts, 

tools  and  also  some  design  practices.  These  sources  were  quite  helpful  I  had  to  plan  the 

project step by step and construct it. 

1 

Ian Sommerville, Software Engineering, 10th Edition, Pearson Education, 2016. 

2    Pressman, R. S., Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, 8th Edition, McGraw-

Hill Education, 2015. 

3  React Documentation – 

https://react.dev/ 

4  React Native Documentation – 

https://reactnative.dev/ 

5 

JavaScript Documentation (MDN Web Docs) – 

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript 

6  UML Diagrams and Modeling – 

https://www.uml-diagrams.org/ 

7  Financial Application Design Concepts – 

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/financial-management/ 

8  Software Testing Concepts – 

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/software-testing/ 

9  GitHub Documentation – 

https://docs.github.com/ 

10  Visual Studio Code Documentation – 

https://code.visualstudio.com/docs

 
Appendix B – User Manual 

This handbook is prepared to guide both new and existing users of FinTrac. It explains how to 

register, log in, manage financial data, and handle common issues while using the application.. 

1. Introduction 

FinTrac  is  a  personal  finance  management  application  that  helps  users  track  income  and 

expenses,  create  budgets,  manage  savings  goals,  and  view  financial  reports.  This  manual 

explains how to use each feature in a simple, step-by-step manner. 

2. System Requirements 

-  Operating System: Windows 7 or later, Linux, or macOS 

-  Browser: Latest version of Chrome / Firefox / Edge 

-  RAM: Minimum 4 GB recommended 

- 

Internet: Required for login and data synchronization 

3. Accessing the Application 

o  Open your web browser. 

o  Enter the FinTrac application URL (provided by the developer/admin). 

o  The home page will load with login and signup options. 

4. User Registration and Login 

•  New User (Sign Up): 

o  Click on “Sign Up” from the navigation bar. 

o  Enter your name, email, password, and confirm password. 

o  Submit the form to create your account. 

•  Existing User (Login): 

o  Click on “Login.” 

o  Enter your registered email and password. 

o  After successful login, you will be redirected to the Dashboard. 

Note: If wrong credentials are entered, an error message will be shown. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. User Dashboard 

-  After login, the Dashboard appears with the following options: 

-  Transaction Management 

-  Budget Management 

-  Savings Goals 

-  Financial Reports 

- 

Logout 

6. Managing Transactions 

Click on Transaction Management from the dashboard. 

To add a transaction: 

o  Enter transaction details such as type, category, amount, and date. 

o  Click Save. 

o  A confirmation message will be shown. 

To view transactions: 

o  A list of all saved transactions will be displayed. 

7. Budget Management 

Click on Budget Management. 

o  Select a category. 

o  Enter the budget limit. 

o  Click Save. 

The system tracks expenses against the budget. 

8. Savings Goal Management 

Click on Savings Goals. 

o  Enter goal name, target amount, and target date. 

o  Click Save. 

o  The system tracks savings progress. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Financial Reports 

Click on Financial Reports. 

Users can view: 

o  Monthly income and expense summary 

o  Category-wise analysis 

o  Budget and savings overview 

10. Logging Out 

o  Click on Logout from the dashboard to end the session securely. 

11. Troubleshooting 

o  Unable to login: Check credentials and internet connection. 

o  Transaction not saving: Ensure all required fields are filled. 

o  Reports not loading: Check filters and data availability. 

12. Help & Assistance 

For support or bug reporting, contact the developer/admin using the support email provided 

on the application homepage. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
